feat: build skill to build eslint rule (#4985)
SAP/open-ux-tools: .agents/skills/fiori-eslint-dev/SKILL.md

1. **Use the `Read` tool directly** — never `Bash cat` or spawn Explore subagents for file reading
2. **Read everything in one parallel batch** — each fast path lists the exact files; read them all at once in a single turn
3. **Run only the new test file** during development — not the full package suite:
   ```bash
   NODE_OPTIONS="--experimental-vm-modules" npx jest --testPathPatterns="sap-[rule-name]" --no-coverage
   ```

---

## Step 1 — Identify the rule type, then read the reference file

| Type | Use when | Reference file |
|---|---|---|
| **Annotation rule** | Validates `UI.*` OData annotations in `.xml` / `.cds` files | `references/annotation.md` |
| **Manifest JSON rule** | Validates `manifest.json` properties | `references/manifest-json.md` |
| **Flex change file rule** | Validates `webapp/changes/*.change` (V2 flex settings) | `references/flex-change.md` |
| **JavaScript rule** | Validates JS/TS source code | `references/js-rule.md` |

Infer from the request:
- **Rule name** — `sap-[kebab-case-name]` pattern
- **OData version** — V2 only, V4 only, or both
- **Auto-fix** — yes/no
- **Severity** — `error` or `warning`. Rules in `recommended-for-s4hana` MUST be `warn`.

> **Read the matching reference file immediately**, then read all the files it lists in a single parallel batch. If the rule spans multiple types (e.g. annotations + manifest, or annotations + flex changes), read all matching reference files and combine their templates and access patterns.

Reviewer: `annotations + flex changes` - there is no such rule. Did you mean `manifest+flex change`?

'@sap-ux/fiori-tools/sap-my-new-rule': 'warn',
```

If the rule should also apply to S/4HANA projects, add it to the `recommended-for-s4hana` config in `src/index.ts` as well. Rules in this config **must** use `'warn'` severity:
```typescript
// In the recommended-for-s4hana config rules object:
'@sap-ux/fiori-tools/sap-my-new-rule': 'warn',
```

### Step 5 — Write tests

Use the test template from the reference file. Run only the new test file during development:
```bash
NODE_OPTIONS="--experimental-vm-modules" npx jest --testPathPatterns="sap-my-new-rule" --no-coverage
```

If tests show 0 errors when violations are expected, check the debug checklist at the bottom of the reference file.

### Step 6 — Write documentation

Create `packages/eslint-plugin-fiori-tools/docs/rules/sap-[rule-name].md`.
Read `packages/eslint-plugin-fiori-tools/docs/rules/TEMPLATE.md` for structure. Key sections: Rule Details, Why Was This Introduced?, Warning / Error Examples, Correct Patterns, How to Fix. Only include "Further Reading" if you have a real verifiable URL.

### Step 7 — Update README

Add at the **top** of the rules table in `packages/eslint-plugin-fiori-tools/README.md`:
```markdown

> |  new  | [sap-my-new-rule](docs/rules/sap-my-new-rule.md) | Short description | | ✅ |

Reviewer: Should we add instructions to update the version for previous rule, that also had `new` in the first column? It can checked in the changelog.

            context.report({
                node,
                messageId: MY_NEW_RULE,
                fix: createJsonFixer({
                    // Remove the setting: provide parent path to delete
                    deepestPathResult,
                    node
                })
            });
        }
});

export default rule;
```

### For a JavaScript rule:

```typescript
import type { Rule } from 'eslint';

const rule: Rule.RuleModule = {
    meta: {
        type: 'problem',
        docs: {
            description: 'Short description',
            category: 'Best Practices',
            recommended: false
        },
        messages: {
            myMessageId: 'Human-readable error message.'
        },
        schema: []
    },
    create(context: Rule.RuleContext) {
        return {
            CallExpression(node) {
                // Check the node and report if needed
                // context.report({ node, messageId: 'myMessageId' });
            }
        };
    }
};

export default rule;
```

### For a flex change file rule (V2 `.change` files):

Rules that cover both `manifest.json` (V4) and flex `*.change` files (V2) must:

> 1. Accept both `FioriJSONSourceCode` and `FioriChangeSourceCode` in `check()`.

Reviewer: I tested adding a flex change rule for a V2 app - it added FioriJSONSourceCode to the rule, but it doesn't check the manifest, so it is not required. Also, the diagnostics for the rule was missing `property` where the property name should be defined (like  'liveMode' for example). Without it, when integrated in Page editor, the navigation to the change file doesn't work. If it is required, we should clarify required diagnostic for flex change/manifest/annotation rules (like changeFileUri also required for .change, pageNames needed for annotation issues). Otherwise testing the skill worked well.

                    context,
                    deepestPathResult: FLEX_CHANGE_NEW_VALUE_PATH_RESULT,
                    node,
                    operation: 'update',
                    value: true   // or whatever the correct value is
                })
            });
        };
    }
});
```

Key reference for the linker side: `src/project-context/linker/fe-v2.ts` `getTablePropertyChangeConfig` — this is how `changeFileUri` and `selector` are populated on a `ConfigurationProperty` from parsed flex change files.

## Step 6 — Register the rule

Add the rule to `packages/eslint-plugin-fiori-tools/src/rules/index.ts`:

```typescript
// 1. Add import (keep alphabetical order)
import sapMyNewRule from './sap-my-new-rule';

// 2. Add to the exported rules object (keep alphabetical order)
export const rules = {
    // ... existing rules ...
    'sap-my-new-rule': sapMyNewRule,
    // ... more rules ...
};
```

Then add it to the appropriate config in `packages/eslint-plugin-fiori-tools/src/index.ts`:

```typescript
// Inside configs['recommended-for-s4hana'].rules (for Fiori language rules)
// or inside configs.recommended.rules (for JS/TS rules)

> '@sap-ux/fiori-tools/sap-my-new-rule': 'error', // or 'warn'

Reviewer: `@sap-ux/fiori-tools` is the correct namespace

```

## Step 7 — Write unit tests

### Before writing tests, understand existing tests

```bash
# Check existing test files - v4
cat packages/eslint-plugin-fiori-tools/test/rules/sap-creation-mode-for-table-v4.test.ts
# Check existing test files - v2
cat packages/eslint-plugin-fiori-tools/test/rules/sap-creation-mode-for-table-v2.test.ts
# Check existing test with CAP/CDS support
cat packages/eslint-plugin-fiori-tools/test/rules/sap-width-including-column-header.test.ts
# Check existing test with flex change file support
cat packages/eslint-plugin-fiori-tools/test/rules/sap-enable-export.test.ts
```

Create `packages/eslint-plugin-fiori-tools/test/rules/sap-[rule-name].test.ts`.

> ### For Fiori language rules:

Reviewer: You mean JSON language or manifest rules? FioriLanguage in the plugin includes all: .json, .xml, .change and .cds.

Author: It is missing structure - now added a clear structure

### For Fiori language rules: (parent)
#### JSON (manifest.json):
#### XML (annotations.xml / metadata.xml):
#### CDS (CAP projects):
#### Flex change files (V2 .change files):

            },
            [] // no project context changes needed
        ),
        // Case 2: property set to correct value
        createValidTest(
            {
                name: 'property set to correct value',
                filename: V4_MANIFEST_PATH,
                code: getManifestAsCode(V4_MANIFEST, [
                    { path: ['sap.app', 'myProperty'], value: 'expectedValue' }
                ])
            },
            []
        )
    ],
    invalid: [
        // Case 3: property set to wrong value
        createInvalidTest(
            {
                name: 'property set to wrong value',
                filename: V4_MANIFEST_PATH,
                code: getManifestAsCode(V4_MANIFEST, [
                    { path: ['sap.app', 'myProperty'], value: 'wrongValue' }
                ])
            },
            [],
            {
                errors: [{ messageId: 'sap-my-new-rule' }],
                // If fixable, include the expected output after fix:
                // output: getManifestAsCode(V4_MANIFEST, []) // property removed
            }
        )
    ]
});
```

### For CAP/CDS rules:

> CAP rules run against a CAP project where annotations live in `.cds` files rather than `manifest.json`. Use `setup(name, CAP_APP_PATH)` to point the project context at the CAP test project — this also triggers an `npm install` of the CDS module if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CAP rules run against a CAP project where annotations live in `.cds` files rather than `.xml` files. Use `setup(name, CAP_APP_PATH)` to point the project context at the CAP test project — this also triggers an `npm install` of the CDS module if needed.
```

```typescript
import {
    getManifestAsCode,
    setup,
    CAP_APP_PATH,
    CAP_MANIFEST,
    CAP_MANIFEST_PATH,
    CAP_ANNOTATIONS_PATH,
} from '../test-helper';

// Regular (non-CAP) tester
const { createValidTest, createInvalidTest } = setup('sap-my-new-rule');

// CAP tester — second argument activates CAP project context
const { createValidTest: createValidTestCAP, createInvalidTest: createInvalidTestCAP } = setup(
    'sap-my-new-rule - CAP',
    CAP_APP_PATH
);

// Run a separate ruleTester.run() block for CAP cases:
ruleTester.run('sap-my-new-rule - CAP', myNewRule, {
    valid: [
        createValidTestCAP(
            {
                name: 'non manifest file - cds',
                filename: 'some-other-file.cds',
                code: ''
            },
            []

>         ),

Reviewer: Need a .cds annotation example here, as other tests check the manifest.json.

## Why Was This Introduced?

[Context: what user-visible problem does this rule prevent?]

## Warning / Error Examples

The following configuration will trigger a warning/error:

\`\`\`json
{
  "sap.app": {
    "myProperty": "wrongValue"
  }
}
\`\`\`

**Error message:** `Human-readable error message explaining the violation.`

## Correct Patterns

The following configurations are valid:

**Property absent (default behavior applies):**
\`\`\`json
{
  "sap.app": {}
}
\`\`\`

**Property set to correct value:**
\`\`\`json
{
  "sap.app": {
    "myProperty": "expectedValue"
  }
}
\`\`\`

## How to Fix

[Describe how to resolve the violation. Mention if the rule is auto-fixable.]

If the rule is auto-fixable, running `eslint --fix` will [describe what the fix does].

## Bug Report

Report issues at: https://github.com/SAP/open-ux-tools/issues

## Further Reading

- [Link to relevant UI5 documentation]
- [Link to Fiori Design Guidelines if applicable]
```

## Step 9 — Update the README

Add the new rule to the rule table in `packages/eslint-plugin-fiori-tools/README.md`:

```bash
# Find the rules table in README
grep -n "sap-" packages/eslint-plugin-fiori-tools/README.md | head -20
```

> Add a row in the correct alphabetical position:

Reviewer: New rule should be added at the top of the table as most recent
